# Lab Demonstration

In this section of the course, the instructor can walk students through the basic functionality of FME Workbench and FME Data Inspector. If your lab space permits it, students can follow along.

This content can also be adapted as lectures instead, if the instructor prefers.

# Learning Objectives

4. **Quick translation** is the technique of carrying out a translation generated by FME, without further editing.
5. The **Generate Workspace** dialog is the main method by which a quick translation can be set up in FME Workbench.
6. Data inspection is a technique for checking and verifying data before, during, and after a translation. The **FME Data Inspector** is a tool for inspecting data.
7. A **schema** describes a dataset’s structure, including its feature types, attributes, and geometries.
8. **Schema editing** is the act of editing the destination schema to better define what is required out of the translation.
9. The act of joining the source schema to the destination is called **schema mapping**. Differences between the two schemas lead to **structural transformation**.
10. **Content transformation** is the modifying of data content during a translation. In FME Workbench data transformation is carried out using objects called transformers.

Students will gain the ability to...

1. Open a workspace in FME Workbench and run it
2. Start FME Workbench and set up a quick translation
3. Start the FME Data Inspector, and to open and add datasets
4. Navigate a dataset and to query features within it
5. Control Data Inspector symbology and display characteristics
6. Set background maps in the Data Inspector
7. Edit a writer schema
8. Restructure data by mapping a reader to a writer schema, both manually and through transformers
9. Locate transformers in Workbench and use them to transform data content
10. Set transformer parameters in either the Parameter Editor or transformer dialogs
11. Define feature groups using the Group-By option
12. Reproject data using Workbench
