# Lab Exercises

In this section of the course, students will complete independent exercises using FME Workbench and FME Data Inspector.

# Structure

The exercise section is made up of four sections. These sections are:

- Getting Started with FME Desktop
- Data Transformation
- Getting Started with AutoCAD
- Lab Questions

The first section covers the basic functionality of FME Desktop. The second explores data transformation, including both structural and content transformation. The third and final section provides an introduction to GIS and CAD data integration, covering conversion of common CAD formats (DWG and DGN) to a common GIS format, the Esri shapefile (SHP). The fourth and final section contains 16 questions the instructor can use for grading students' completion of the exercises.

# Learning Objectives

Students will gain the ability to...

1. Open a workspace in FME Workbench and run it
2. Start FME Workbench and set up a quick translation
3. Start the FME Data Inspector, and to open and add datasets
4. Navigate a dataset and to query features within it
5. Control Data Inspector symbology and display characteristics
6. Set background maps in the Data Inspector
7. Edit a writer schema
8. Restructure data by mapping a reader to a writer schema, both manually and through transformers
9. Locate transformers in Workbench and use them to transform data content
10. Set transformer parameters in either the Parameter Editor or transformer dialogs
11. Define feature groups using the Group-By option
12. Reproject data using Workbench
13. View and inspect AutoCAD DWG Files, including grouping entities and handling blocks
14. Carrying out DWG to DGN translation
15. Carrying out Esri Shapefile (SHP) to DWG translation
16. Exploding block entities in DWG translations
17. Preserving block entities in DWG translations
