

Introduction
============

Autodesk AutoCAD transformations are some of the most commonly utilized
transformations in FME. There are four main formats that FME uses to
read and write AutoCAD drawing files; for more specific information on
which format to use, please refer to the article [AutoCAD DWG - What
format should I
use?](https://knowledge.safe.com/content/kbentry/21601/autocad-dwg-which-format-should-i-use.html)
.

For the purposes of this beginner tutorial, we will focus on the
AutoDesk AutoCAD DWG/DXF (ACAD) format. To better understand how FME
represents and translates AutoCAD drawing files, it is first worth
looking at the basic components of a DWG file. When adding a DWG reader
to your FME workspace, you will notice that there are a large number of
reader parameters to choose from. While we will discuss when to use
certain parameters later in this tutorial, let\'s first examine some of
the more common terms that will be used throughout these articles:

Terminology
===========

Entities
--------

What is meant by \'Entities\' in AutoCAD? An AutoCAD entity represents a
single drawn object in a DWG. An entity may be a block, line, point,
text, etc. This term is important to keep in mind when discussing DWG
transformations, as many of the reader parameters are centered on how
you want to read and group entities. How you choose to group your
entities will also affect what will become an FME feature type during
translation.

Layers
------

AutoCAD layers are user-defined groupings of entities that may have
user-defined style and format characteristics as well as references to
other layers (xrefs). In FME, layers are the default entity grouping in
the reader parameters.

Attributes
----------

AutoCAD attributes can only be attached to block entities in the form of
a label or a tag. In FME, this attribute information can be exposed
using certain reader parameters and workflow modifications. For
information on how to extract this attribute information during
translation (such as converting these attributes to shapefile), please
see the transformation tutorial on transforming [DWG to
SHP](https://knowledge.safe.com/content/kbentry/18737/tutorial-getting-started-with-autocad-and-fme.html)
.

Extended Entity Data
--------------------

Also known as xdata. This is a piece of application-driven information
that users can attach to any given entity. This is not the same as an
attribute, but rather a small snippet of information (\<=16Kb) important
to that specific entity (such as steel beam density). Extended entity
data can be exposed by selecting the \'Read Interpreted Extended Entity
Data\' option in the DWG/DXF reader parameters, but how this data is
interpreted depends on the type of extended entity data (e.g. text,
integer) and which other reader parameters are selected.

Blocks
------

AutoCAD blocks are collections of entities such as lines, points, text
that are combined together to form one single block entity. Blocks save
a CAD operator\'s time by providing the ability to re-use the same
\'sub-drawing\' (such as a door, tree, lamp) over and over on different
layers or even drawings (with the correct reference information in
place) without having to redraw the element each time it is required. In
FME and AutoCAD, block entities are saved as \'inserts\', which both
programs interpret as points. These inserts reference block definitions
that dictate what is to be drawn at the insert location. In FME, a user
can explode a block into its entity components by selecting \'Explode
Blocks into Entities\' in the reader parameters. More information on
block handling is available later in this tutorial in [Basic DWG Block
Handling Example: Exploding Block Entities (DWG to
PDF)](https://knowledge.safe.com/articles/27245/basic-dwg-block-handling-example-exploding-block-e.html)
.

Learning Objectives
===================

-   View and inspect AutoCAD DWG Files, including grouping entities and
    handling blocks
-   Carry out DWG to DGN translation
-   Carry out Esri Shapefile (SHP) to DWG translation
-   Explode block entities in DWG translations
-   Preserve block entities in DWG translations

Prerequisites / Level of Difficulty
===================================

All levels of FME users. Some knowledge of FME Workbench and AutoCAD
will make the tutorial more relevant, but prior training is not
necessary.

Articles
========

[Viewing and Inspecting AutoCAD DWG Files:Grouping
Entities](https://knowledge.safe.com/content/kbentry/22435/getting-started-with-autocad-and-fme-reader-parame.html)

In this article we examine the different ways you can modify the Group
Entities reader parameters to tailor your workspace and data inspection
for your needs.

[Viewing and Inspecting AutoCAD DWG Data: Handling
Blocks](https://knowledge.safe.com/articles/27244/viewing-and-inspecting-autocad-dwg-data-handling-b.html)

In this article we examine the difference between exploding blocks and
not exploding blocks when reading DWG data.

[Reading from DWG (DWG to
DGN)](https://knowledge.safe.com/articles/1470/how-to-convert-dwg-to-dgn-autocad-to-microstation.html)

This example shows how to perform a translation from DWG to DGN (AutoCAD
to Bentley Microstation Design) format.

[Writing to DWG (Esri Shapefile to
DWG)](https://knowledge.safe.com/articles/18703/how-to-convert-shp-to-dwg-esri-shapefile-to-autoca.html)

This example demonstrates transforming some City of Vancouver postal
code data from Esri shapefile to AutoCAD DWG, and storing the attributes
as Extended Entity data.

[Basic DWG Block Handling Example: Exploding Block
Entities](https://knowledge.safe.com/articles/27245/basic-dwg-block-handling-example-exploding-block-e.html)

In this article we examine what happens when you choose to explode block
entities in FME, and when that decision might make sense for your
workflow. This article also links to an example of working with exploded
blocks in a DWG to PDF translation.

[Basic DWG Block Handling Example: Preserving Block
Entities](https://knowledge.safe.com/articles/18737/tutorial-getting-started-with-autocad-and-fme.html)

In this article we look at what happens if you choose to not explode
your blocks, and when that option might be best for your workflow. This
article also links to an example of working with blocks in a DWG to SHP
translation.


