Article created with FME Desktop 2018.0

Introduction
============

This example will show you how to transform City of Vancouver Postal
Code data from ESRI Shapefile (\*.shp) to AutoCAD Drawing (\*.dwg)
format, and store the attributes as Extended Entity data.

***Note:** this video was created with FME version 2016.0. Some of the
steps might be slightly different, but the overall process is the same.
The instructions below are for 2018.0.*

Downloads
=========

-   [Forwardsortationareas.zip](https://knowledge.safe.com/storage/attachments/716-forwardsortationareas.zip)
-   [esrishape2acad-complete.fmwt](https://knowledge.safe.com/storage/attachments/15802-esrishape2acad-complete.fmwt){#15802}

Feel free to download and unzip the data (ForwardSortationAreas.zip
file) attached to this article if you\'d like to perform these steps
yourself as we go along!

The ESRI Shapefile forward sortation areas file denotes the different
postal districts covering Vancouver.

Source Data
===========

The Forward Sortation Areas data set provided here comes from Statistics
Canada, 2011 Census Digital Boundary Files, 2013. Reproduced and
distributed on an \"as is\" basis with the permission of Statistics
Canada. © This data includes information copied with permission from
Canada Post Corporation.

Step-by-Step Instructions
=========================

To create the demo, you will need to carry out the following steps.

**1) Inspect the source (reader) dataset in FME Data Inspector**

Start FME Data Inspector. In Windows this is found under Start \> All
Programs \> FME Desktop \> FME Data Inspector

Using Windows Explorer, drag the ESRI Shapefile into the data inspector
and click OK.

You can see that we have area features representing forward sortation
areas. There is a single attribute (CFSAUID) which identifies the
forward sortation area by the first three-digits of the postal code.

**2) Start FME Workbench**

In Windows this is found under Start \> All Programs \> FME Desktop \>
FME Workbench

**3) Select Generate Workspace**

This is found under File \> Generate Workspace. Alternatively, use
Ctrl+G as a shortcut.

**4) Browse to and select the source (Reader) dataset**

Select Esri Shapefile for the source format; do this by typing the name
into the field until it appears within the dropdown list. Navigate to
the ForwardSortationAreas.shp file and select the dataset.

**5) Set the output (Writer) format to Autodesk AutoCAD DWG/DXF**

Select Autodesk AutoCAD DWG/DXF for the format for the writer; do this
by typing the name into the field until it appears within the dropdown
list.

**6) Modify the output dataset Parameters**

By default, AutoCAD DWG files do not store attributes. However,
attributes can be stored in AutoCAD DWG files as extended entity data.

Click on Parameters, and set the Attribute Output to "Extended Entity
Data". Then click OK.

**7) Set the output dataset name and location**

Set the output file name to be VancouverFSA.dwg. Click OK to create the
workspace.

**8) Click the Run button on the toolbar**

Run the workspace by clicking on the green play button. This carries out
the translation.

**9) View the DWG in FME Inspector**

Open FME Inspector. Using Windows Explorer, drag the VancouverFSA.dwg
file into FME Inspector and click OK. When prompted, "Select Dataset to
View", open the reader Parameters and set Group Entities By to
"Attribute Schema". This will ensure that you can view the attributes in
your AutoCAD DWG file that were saved as extended entity data.

Refer to the Knowledge Base article [Viewing and Inspecting AutoCAD DWG
Data](https://knowledge.safe.com/articles/22435/getting-started-with-autocad-and-fme-reader-parame.html)
for more information on the "Group Entities By" options for AutoCAD
DWG/DXF files.

[thub.nodes.view.add-new-comment](#)
