<!--Exercise Section-->

<table style="border-spacing: 0px;border-collapse: collapse;font-family:serif">
<tr>
<td width=25% style="vertical-align:middle;background-color:darkorange;border: 2px solid darkorange">
<i class="fa fa-cogs fa-lg fa-pull-left fa-fw" style="color:white;padding-right: 12px;vertical-align:text-top"></i>
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold"></span>
</td>
<td style="border: 2px solid darkorange;background-color:darkorange;color:white">
<span style="color:white;font-size:x-large;font-weight: bold">Data Integration Scenario</span>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Data</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">City Parks (MapInfo TAB)<br>City... list all here</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Overall Goal</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">Use your FME skills to integrate data from several City departments into a centralized database.</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Demonstrates</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">Content Transformation, Structural Transformation, Schema Editing</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">Start Workspace</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">None</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange; font-weight: bold">End Workspace</td>
<td style="border: 1px solid darkorange">None. Instructors can access final workspace <a href="">here</a>.</td>
</tr>

</table>

## Introduction

In the previous exercises you have learned how to translate GIS and CAD data using FME. Now let's put that knowledge to use! As we covered in the [Lecture section](CADGIS1Lecture\1.01.CADGISIntegration.md), GIS-CAD data integration is an important, but complex process. In this exercise you will develop a workspace that solves a GIS-CAD data integration problem.

This exercise offers less guidance than the previous ones; you will have to explore FME for yourself in order to solve the problem. To get started, we will provide an example of one CAD-GIS translation from the scenario data. After that you can follow similar steps for the remaining datasets. If you have trouble carrying out the steps you can refer to the FME Workbench Help (also available online in our [Documentation](https://support.safe.com/KnowledgeDocumentation)) or the community [Knowledge Center](https://knowledge.safe.com/).

## Exercise Goals

We have several goals for the exercise:

- Identify water network pipes that are older than 1935 to schedule them for replacement
- Create CAD site drawings of each property parcel that will be affected by this replacement
- Create an Excel file for the department who will conduct mass-mailings to alert affected property owners
- Add existing CAD data to the department's Esri Geodatabase, including validation

We will start with our data in the common GIS format Esri shapefile format and translate it to AutoDesk .dwg and Excel .xlsx formats. Along the way we will use several transformers to alter the structure and content of our data.

# Steps

1. Add combined SHP reader for water transmission and distribution networks
2. Add separate ACAD writers, both with Attribute Output set to Extended Entity Data
3. Check output in DI to see attributes preserved as extended entity data
4. Add TestFilter
5. Add SHP reader for property parcel polygons (combine with water?)
5. Add Intersector of TestFilter and parcels
6. Add result to site ACAD writer; also add transmission mains for reference
7. Add MapTextLabeller to label site drawings

Want site drawings to have streets, all water mains, water mains to replace, maybe electrical grid.
Style site drawings (dwgstyler likely, since multiple layers on feature type. Or do I do I writer with multiple ft layers...)
Add layout to site drawings

. Add Excel writer feature type
. Sorter? AttributeManager for
Connect Intersector output to Excel writer feature type

Add [layout](https://knowledge.safe.com/articles/34345/working-with-autocad-layouts.html)

Have parcels and labels, but nothing outside that
Note: to read xdata in AutoCAD 2018, go to Express Tools, List Xdata, click your feature, hit enter.
