# Check these to make sure they match 2018 updates!

# Lab Questions

## Lecture

||Question|
|--|--|
|1|What is a spatial ETL?|
|2|In the terminology of FME, what is the difference between a *translation* and a *transformation*?|
|3|Is the FME Data Inspector a fully-featured GIS and cartography application? Why or why not?|
|4|What is the difference between structural and content data transformation?|
|5|What are some of the key differences between CAD and GISystems that impact data integration?|


## Getting Started with FME Desktop

Exercise|Question
--|--
Exercise 1|What is another use case for this workspace? What organization or business could use similar data?
Exercise 4|What is the value of ZoneName for the westernmost Industrial zone?

## Data Transformation

Exercise|Question
--|--
Exercise 1|Why is VisitorCount stored with Type “integer” and variable while ParkArea and AverageParkArea are stored with Type “float”?
Exercise 2|Complete the Advanced Exercise here. Why might bookmarking your workspaces be considered a best practice for FME users? Best practice is defined by Merriam-Webster as “a procedure that has been shown by research and experience to produce optimal results and that is established or proposed as a standard suitable for widespread adoption.”
Exercise 3|Complete the Advanced Exercise. What are the smallest, largest, and total park areas? What are the names of the smallest and largest parks? Don’t forget to include units. Where can you confirm the data’s units?
Exercise 4|Complete the Advanced Exercise. How many parks are above average and how many are below average?
Exercise 5|What is the average size of parks in the Kitsilano neighborhood?
Exercise 6|Complete the Advanced Exercise here. Where should the Reprojector transformer be placed in the workspace and why is this important?

## Getting Started with AutoCAD

Exercise|Question
--|--
Exercise 1|
Exercise 2|
Exercise 3|
Exercise 4|
Exercise 5|
Exercise 6|

[Answers for instructors here.]()
